# Readme for the SamsungTidyMean.txt dataset

The original dataset can be downloaded here:
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 
Additional information can be found here:
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

The following steps have been performed on the original data. The purpose was to get a tidy dataset with the average of each mean or std deviation variable for each activity and each subject.

Step 1
- The test and train measurements are enriched by the subject (column 1) and activity (column 2) performed.

Step 2
- The variables of the 2 resulting data.frames are named descriptively. Column 1 is named "Subject", column 2 is named "Activity" and the resulting column names are taken from the original "features.txt". The preceding numbers of the "features.txt" have been preserved to guarantee unique variable names.
 
Step 3
- The train and test data.frames are merged into one data.frame by binding the rows.
 
Step 4
- Apart from "Subject" and "Activity" columns only the columns denoting measurements on the mean and standard deviation are kept. This is done by filtering on columns containing the string "std()" or "mean()".

Step 5
- The activity values are mapped to descriptive names. So 1 is mapped to WALKING, 2 to WALKING_UPSTAIRS and so on. The mapping is based on the "activity_labels.txt" from the original dataset.

Step 6
- The data.set is grouped by subject and activity and for all other variables the mean function is used as the grouping function

Step 7
- Non-descriptive column names derived from the aggregate function are replaced
 
Step 8
- The resulting tidy data.frame file is generated by using the write.table() function using row.name=FALSE
